This program is distributed under the Open Government Licence - Canada
version 2.0 or any later version
(https://open.canada.ca/en/open-government-licence-canada).
This program also contains the following subprograms:
  - A modified version of the Canadian Land Surface Scheme version 3.6,
    licensed under the Environment Canada – Atmospheric Science and
    Technology Licence/Disclaimer version 3
    (https://collaboration.cmc.ec.gc.ca/science/rpn.comm/license.html);
  - A modified version of Soil-Vegetation-Snow version 1 and a subset of
    its dependencies, licensed under the Environment Canada -
    Atmospheric Science and Technology License/Disclaimer version 3
    (https://collaboration.cmc.ec.gc.ca/science/rpn.comm/license.html);
  - A modified version of WATROUTE licensed under the GNU Lesser General
    Public License (https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html).
  - The 'rmnlib' library licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public
    License version 2.1
    (https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1.en.html)
The text of these licenses is copied below.

---
Open Government Licence - Canada - April 26, 2013
(https://open.canada.ca/en/open-government-licence-canada)

You are encouraged to use the Information that is available under this
licence with only a few conditions.

    Using Information under this licence:
      - Use of any Information indicates your acceptance of the terms
        below.
      - The Information Provider grants you a worldwide, royalty-free,
        perpetual, non-exclusive licence to use the Information,
        including for commercial purposes, subject to the terms below.

    You are free to:
      - Copy, modify, publish, translate, adapt, distribute or otherwise
        use the Information in any medium, mode or format for any lawful
        purpose.

    You must, where you do any of the above:
      - Acknowledge the source of the Information by including any
        attribution statement specified by the Information Provider(s)
        and, where possible, provide a link to this licence.
      - If the Information Provider does not provide a specific
        attribution statement, or if you are using Information from
        several information providers and multiple attributions are not
        practical for your product or application, you must use the
        following attribution statement:

        Contains information licensed under the Open Government Licence
        – Canada
        https://open.canada.ca/en/open-government-licence-canada

The terms of this licence are important, and if you fail to comply with
any of them, the rights granted to you under this licence, or any
similar licence granted by the Information Provider, will end
automatically.

Exemptions:
    This licence does not grant you any right to use:
      - Personal Information;
      - third party rights the Information Provider is not authorized to
        license;
      - the names, crests, logos, or other official symbols of the
        Information Provider; and
      - Information subject to other intellectual property rights,
        including patents, trade-marks and official marks.

Non-endorsement:
    This licence does not grant you any right to use the Information in
    a way that suggests any official status or that the Information
    Provider endorses you or your use of the Information.

No Warranty:
    The Information is licensed "as is", and the Information Provider
    excludes all representations, warranties, obligations, and
    liabilities, whether express or implied, to the maximum extent
    permitted by law.
        The Information Provider is not liable for any errors or
    omissions in the Information, and will not under any circumstances
    be liable for any direct, indirect, special, incidental,
    consequential, or other loss, injury or damage caused by its use or
    otherwise arising in connection with this licence or the
    Information, even if specifically advised of the possibility of such
    loss, injury or damage.

Governing Law:
    This licence is governed by the laws of the province of Ontario and
    the applicable laws of Canada.
        Legal proceedings related to this licence may only be brought in
    the courts of Ontario or the Federal Court of Canada.

Definitions:
    In this licence, the terms below have the following meanings:
      - "Information" means information resources protected by copyright
        or other information that is offered for use under the terms of
        this licence.
      - "Information Provider" means Her Majesty the Queen in right of
        Canada.
      - "Personal Information" means "personal information" as defined
        in section 3 of the Privacy Act, R.S.C. 1985, c. P-21.
      - "You" means the natural or legal person, or body of persons
        corporate or incorporate, acquiring rights under this licence.

Versioning:
    This is version 2.0 of the Open Government Licence – Canada. The
    Information Provider may make changes to the terms of this licence
    from time to time and issue a new version of the licence. Your use
    of the Information will be governed by the terms of the licence in
    force as of the date you accessed the information.

---
Environment Canada – Atmospheric Science and Technology
Licence/Disclaimer version 3 – May 7, 2008
(https://collaboration.cmc.ec.gc.ca/science/rpn.comm/license.html)

Acceptance of this Agreement. Permission is hereby granted to install
and use this Software subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
this License Agreement. The Software refers to any copyrightable work of
Environment Canada ("EC") as herein licensed. Downloading, installing
and/or using the Software, as developed by EC will indicate your
acceptance to enter into a license agreement with Her Majesty the Queen
in Right of Canada, acting through and represented by the Minister of
the Environment. If you do not wish to be bound by those terms and
conditions, do not download and/or use the Software.

Access and use of the Software shall impose the following
obligations on you and the organization you represent ("User"):

    Grant of Rights.
        The User is granted the non-exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free
        right, to use, copy, modify, alter, enhance and distribute the
        Software, and any derivative works thereof (including Software
        outputs), and its supporting documentation for any purpose
        whatsoever, except commercial sales.

    Redistribution Restrictions.
        Redistribution to any other third party is only permitted when
        that third party has been informed by the User of the terms and
        conditions on the usage of the Software as described herein, and
        that accessing and using the redistributed Software and/or
        derivative work imply their acceptance of those conditions.
        Furthermore the following notice shall be included in every
        distributed source file:

        Environment Canada – Atmospheric Science and Technology License/
        Disclaimer, version 3; Last Modified: April 2, 2008.
        This is free but copyrighted software; you can use/redistribute/
        modify it under the terms of the Environment Canada –
        Atmospheric Science and Technology License/Disclaimer version 3
        or (at your option) any later version that should be found at:
        http://collaboration.cmc.ec.gc.ca/science/rpn.comm/license.html
        This software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
        but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
        MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
        above mentioned License/Disclaimer for more details.
        You should have received a copy of the License/Disclaimer along
        with this software; if not, you can write to: EC-RPN COMM Group,
        2121 TransCanada, suite 500, Dorval (Quebec), CANADA, H9P 1J3;
        or send e-mail to service.rpn@ec.gc.ca

    Copyright Notice.
        Further, the User agrees to acknowledge the source of the
        Software herein provided, in any publications that result from
        the use of the Software or in any software package that includes
        the Software with the following layout: based on software models
        developed and copyrighted to Environment Canada. However, the
        name of Environment Canada may not be used in any advertising or
        publicity to endorse or promote any products or commercial
        entity unless specific written permission is obtained from EC.

    No Support.
        The User also understands that EC is not obligated to provide
        the User with any support, consulting, training or assistance of
        any kind with regard to the use, operation and performance of
        the Software nor to provide the User with any updates,
        revisions, new versions or "bug fixes".

    No Warranty.
        The Software is provided by EC "as is" and any express or
        implied warranties, including but not limited to, the implied
        warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular
        purpose are disclaimed. In no event shall EC be liable for any
        special, indirect or consequential damages or any damages
        whatsoever, including but not limited to claims associated with
        the loss of data or profits, which may result from an action in
        contract, negligence or other tortuous claim that arises out of
        or in connection with the access, use or performance of the
        Software.

    Indemnification.
        The User shall indemnify and save harmless EC, its employees and
        agents, from and against and be responsible for all claims,
        demands, losses, costs, including solicitor and client costs,
        damages, actions, suits, or proceedings, by whomsoever made,
        brought, and prosecuted, in any manner, based upon, arising out
        of, related to, occasioned by or attributable to any acts or
        conduct of the User, its employees, agents whether by reason of
        negligence or otherwise from the use, modification or
        distribution of the Software.

    Termination.
        This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate
        automatically if the User fails to comply with its terms and
        conditions and fails to cure such breach within 30 days of
        receiving written notice to that effect from EC.

---
GNU Lesser General Public License - Version 3, 29 June 2007
(https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html)

Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <https://fsf.org/>
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this
license document, but changing it is not allowed.

This version of the GNU Lesser General Public License incorporates the
terms and conditions of version 3 of the GNU General Public License,
supplemented by the additional permissions listed below.

0. Additional Definitions.
    As used herein, "this License" refers to version 3 of the GNU Lesser
    General Public License, and the "GNU GPL" refers to version 3 of the
    GNU General Public License.
        "The Library" refers to a covered work governed by this License,
    other than an Application or a Combined Work as defined below.
        An "Application" is any work that makes use of an interface
    provided by the Library, but which is not otherwise based on the
    Library. Defining a subclass of a class defined by the Library is
    deemed a mode of using an interface provided by the Library.
        A "Combined Work" is a work produced by combining or linking an
    Application with the Library. The particular version of the Library
    with which the Combined Work was made is also called the "Linked
    Version".
        The "Minimal Corresponding Source" for a Combined Work means the
    Corresponding Source for the Combined Work, excluding any source
    code for portions of the Combined Work that, considered in
    isolation, are based on the Application, and not on the Linked
    Version.
        The "Corresponding Application Code" for a Combined Work means
    the object code and/or source code for the Application, including
    any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the Combined
    Work from the Application, but excluding the System Libraries of the
    Combined Work.

1. Exception to Section 3 of the GNU GPL.
    You may convey a covered work under sections 3 and 4 of this License
    without being bound by section 3 of the GNU GPL.

2. Conveying Modified Versions.
    If you modify a copy of the Library, and, in your modifications, a
    facility refers to a function or data to be supplied by an
    Application that uses the facility (other than as an argument passed
    when the facility is invoked), then you may convey a copy of the
    modified version:
     a) under this License, provided that you make a good faith effort
        to ensure that, in the event an Application does not supply the
        function or data, the facility still operates, and performs
        whatever part of its purpose remains meaningful, or
     b) under the GNU GPL, with none of the additional permissions of
        this License applicable to that copy.

3. Object Code Incorporating Material from Library Header Files.
    The object code form of an Application may incorporate material from
    a header file that is part of the Library.  You may convey such
    object code under terms of your choice, provided that, if the
    incorporated material is not limited to numerical parameters, data
    structure layouts and accessors, or small macros, inline functions
    and templates (ten or fewer lines in length), you do both of the
    following:
     a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the object code that the
        Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are
        covered by this License.
     b) Accompany the object code with a copy of the GNU GPL and this
        license document.

4. Combined Works.
    You may convey a Combined Work under terms of your choice that,
    taken together, effectively do not restrict modification of the
    portions of the Library contained in the Combined Work and reverse
    engineering for debugging such modifications, if you also do each of
    the following:
     a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the Combined Work that
        the Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are
        covered by this License.
     b) Accompany the Combined Work with a copy of the GNU GPL and this
        license document.
     c) For a Combined Work that displays copyright notices during
        execution, include the copyright notice for the Library among
        these notices, as well as a reference directing the user to the
        copies of the GNU GPL and this license document.
     d) Do one of the following:
         0) Convey the Minimal Corresponding Source under the terms of
            this License, and the Corresponding Application Code in a
            form suitable for, and under terms that permit, the user to
            recombine or relink the Application with a modified version
            of the Linked Version to produce a modified Combined Work,
            in the manner specified by section 6 of the GNU GPL for
            conveying Corresponding Source.
         1) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
            Library. A suitable mechanism is one that (a) uses at run
            time a copy of the Library already present on the user's
            computer system, and (b) will operate properly with a
            modified version of the Library that is interface-compatible
            with the Linked Version.
     e) Provide Installation Information, but only if you would
        otherwise be required to provide such information under section
        6 of the GNU GPL, and only to the extent that such information
        is necessary to install and execute a modified version of the
        Combined Work produced by recombining or relinking the
        Application with a modified version of the Linked Version. (If
        you use option 4d0, the Installation Information must accompany
        the Minimal Corresponding Source and Corresponding Application
        Code. If you use option 4d1, you must provide the Installation
        Information in the manner specified by section 6 of the GNU GPL
        for conveying Corresponding Source.)

5. Combined Libraries.
    You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
    Library side by side in a single library together with other library
    facilities that are not Applications and are not covered by this
    License, and convey such a combined library under terms of your
    choice, if you do both of the following:
     a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work
        based on the Library, uncombined with any other library
        facilities, conveyed under the terms of this License.
     b) Give prominent notice with the combined library that part of it
        is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
        accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

6. Revised Versions of the GNU Lesser General Public License.
    The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
    of the GNU Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new
    versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
    differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.
        Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the
    Library as you received it specifies that a certain numbered version
    of the GNU Lesser General Public License "or any later version"
    applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
    conditions either of that published version or of any later version
    published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Library as you
    received it does not specify a version number of the GNU Lesser
    General Public License, you may choose any version of the GNU Lesser
    General Public License ever published by the Free Software
    Foundation.
        If the Library as you received it specifies that a proxy can
    decide whether future versions of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License shall apply, that proxy's public statement of acceptance of
    any version is permanent authorization for you to choose that
    version for the Library.
